[RT-966] Add machine runner migration doc - DO NOT MERGE (#8146)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/migrating-from-launch-agent-to-the-new-machine-runner-agent.adoc

---
contentTags: 
  platform:

>   - Cloud

Reviewer: Is this definitely not applicable to server?

Reviewer 2: Yes, Machine Runner 3.0 will not be included in the upcoming server release. We will update the docs to also include server once Machine Runner 3.0 is supported on server.

---

>  = Migrating from Launch Agent to the new Machine Runner Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 = Migrating from launch agent to machine runner agent
```

Reviewer: update the filename to match the title

:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:

> :page-description: Instructions on how to migrate from Launch agent to the new machine runner agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:page-description: Steps to migrate from using launch agent to the machine runner agent
```

:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:machine:

> This page describes how to migrate an existing Launch Agent installation to the new Machine Runner Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to migrate an existing launch agent installation to machine runner agent.
```

Reviewer: Is it possible to add a sentence to say why people would want to do this, and how they can find out which agent they are currently using?

> Migrating from Launch Agent to the new Machine Runner is a fairly straightforward process. The prerequisites are the same as for Launch Agent. First Launch Agent is uninstalled and removed and then the new agent is installed. The configuration file is 1:1 compatible between the agents so should not need modifying during the migration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating from launch agent to the machine runner agent is a straightforward process. The prerequisites remain  the same. First, uninstall and remove the launch agent, then, install the machine runner agent. The configuration file is 1:1 compatible between the agents so no modifications are needed during the migration
```

[#uninstall-launch-agent]

> == 1. Uninstalling Launch Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== 1. Uninstall launch agent
```

The first step is to uninstall launch agent. The exact process depends on the platform, as described in the following sections.

[#uninstall-launch-agent-linux]
=== Linux

> . If the agent has been installed as a `systemd` service, run the following commands the stop and uninstall the service unit, and delete the service file. (The new agent will install a new service unit):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If the agent has been installed as a `systemd` service, run the following commands to stop and uninstall the service unit, and delete the service file (the new agent will install a new service unit):
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
sudo systemctl stop circleci.service
sudo systemctl disable circleci.service

sudo rm /usr/lib/systemd/system/circleci.service
```

. The launch agent binary can now be removed from the machine. The default install location is `/opt/circleci/circleci-launch-agent`, but this may differ on your machine if the agent was installed somewhere else. The entire `/opt/circleci` subdirectory can be removed at this point.

. Finally, move the agent configuration file. The default location for this is `/etc/opt/circleci/launch-agent-config.yaml`. Move the file to `/etc/circleci-runner/circleci-runner-config.yaml` using the following command:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
mv /etc/opt/circleci/launch-agent-config.yaml /etc/circleci-runner/c sircleci-runner-config.yaml
```

> 
> Alternatively, you can let the machine agent install process create a config file template and copy the existing config into the newly created file (CROSSLINK)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Alternatively, you can let the machine agent install process create a config file template and copy the existing config into the newly created file (CROSSLINK)
```

[#uninstalling-launch-agent-linux-se]
==== RHEL/Rocky Linux

In addition to the steps listed above, the SELinux policy should be uninstalled using the following command:

```shell
sudo semodule -r circleci_launch_agent
```

[#uninstalling-launch-agent-macos]

> === MacOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== macOS
```

. If the agent has been installed as a launchd service, run the following commands to stop the service and remove the service file:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
sudo launchctl unload '/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.circleci.runner.plist'

sudo rm `/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.circleci.runner.plist`
```

. The launch agent binary can now be removed from the machine. The default install location is `/opt/circleci/circleci-launch-agent` but this may differ on your machine if the agent was installed somewhere else. The entire `/opt/circleci` subdirectory can be removed at this point.

. Finally, move the agent configuration file. The default location for this is `/Library/Preferences/com.circleci.runner/launch-agent-config.yaml`. Move the file to `$HOME/Library/Preferences/com.circleci.runner/config.yaml`. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

Alternatively you can let the Machine Agent install process create a config file template and copy the existing config into the newly created file (CROSSLINK)

[#uninstalling-launch-agent-windows]
=== Windows

> . To uninstall the launch agent, you can download the link:https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/runner-installation-files/blob/main/windows-install/Uninstall-CircleCIRunner.ps1[`Uninstall-CircleCIRunner.ps1` script] from GitHub to an easily accessible location. Then, run the script with the following command (from an administrator PowerShell console):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To uninstall the launch agent, you can download the `Uninstall-CircleCIRunner.ps1` link:https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/runner-installation-files/blob/main/windows-install/Uninstall-CircleCIRunner.ps1[script from GitHub] to an easily accessible location. Then, run the script with the following command (from an administrator PowerShell console):
```

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
./Uninstall-CircleCIRunner.ps1
```

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This will remove all launch agent components, including the configuration file.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If you want to reuse the values with the new install, you should save the file to a temporary location while migrating. It is stored by default at `$env:ProgramFiles\CircleCI`

[#install-machine-agent]
== 2. Installing the Machine Agent

> Packaged versions of the machine runner agent are available for Linux and MacOS for a streamlined installation experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packaged versions of the machine runner agent are available for Linux and macOS for a streamlined installation experience.
```

[#install-machine-agent-linux]
=== Linux

> . At present deb and rpm packages are available for linux. Use the following commands to install them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. At present deb and rpm packages are available for linux. Use the following commands to install them:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
# DEB Commands
# This script installs the package repository to the package manager
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/circleci/runner/script.deb.sh | sudo bash
sudo apt install circleci-runner
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
# RPM Commands
# This script installs the package repository to the package manager
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/circleci/runner/script.rpm.sh | sudo bash
sudo yum install circleci-runner
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> The packages will install the latest version of the agent. They also create a circleci user as well as required directories for operation of the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The packages will install the latest version of the agent. They also create a circleci user as well as required directories for operation of the agent.
```

> . The packages will create a template configuration file at `/etc/circleci-runner/circleci-runner-config.yaml`. This configuration is 1:1 compatible with the launch agent configuration, apart from the auto-update feature. Since auto-update has been removed from the new agent, you should use the appropriate package management update tools to get new versions of the package when they are released. When using the `apt` package to update the agent package, user interaction will be required to clear the configuration file modified prompt. This can be avoided using the `--force-confold` flag or by removing the modified configuration file before upgrading. 

Reviewer: Can we just say "you will need to" rather than "user interaction will be required"

Reviewer: Unless this is a different user to the one who is performing this migration, if so this can be left as is

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
Once the config file has been populated, the following command will restart the agent so it can begin claiming:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
sudo systemctl enable circlci-runner
sudo systemctl start circleci-runner
```

[#install-machine-agent-macos]

> === MacOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== macOS
```

> . A `brew` package is available for MacOS. Use the following commands to install the machine agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. A `brew` package is available for macOS. Use the following commands to install the machine agent:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
brew tap circleci-public/homebrew-circleci
brew install --cask circleci-public/homebrew-circleci/circleci-runner
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> The package will install the latest version of the agent along with required directories for the operation of the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package installs the latest version of the agent along with required directories for the operation of the agent.
```

> . The package will create a template configuration file (if it does not already exist) at `$HOME/Library/Preferences/com.circleci.runner/config.yaml`. This configuration is 1:1 compatible with the launch agent configuration, apart from the auto-update feature. Since auto-update has been removed from the new agent, you should use the appropriate package management update tools to get new versions of the package when they are released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The package creates a template configuration file (if it does not already exist) at `$HOME/Library/Preferences/com.circleci.runner/config.yaml`. This configuration is 1:1 compatible with the launch agent configuration, apart from the auto-update feature. Since auto-update has been removed from the new agent, you should use the appropriate package management update tools to get new versions of the package when they are released.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
```shell
launchctl load $HOME/Library/LaunchAgents/com.circleci.runner.plist
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> This only needs to be run once after the machine runner has been installed. After that the machine runner will automatically start when the user logs in. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This only needs to be run once after the machine runner has been installed. After that the machine runner will automatically start when the user logs in. 
```

[#install-machine-agent-windows]
=== Windows

> . To install the new agent, download the https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/runner-installation-files/blob/main/windows-install/Install-CircleCIRunner.ps1[`Install-CircleCIRunner.ps1` script] from GitHub to an easily accessible location. Then, run the script with the following command (from an administrator PowerShell console):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To install the new agent, download the `Install-CircleCIRunner.ps1` https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/runner-installation-files/blob/main/windows-install/Install-CircleCIRunner.ps1[script from GitHub] to an easily accessible location. Then, run the script with the following command (from an administrator PowerShell console):
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
